To close out this Microsoft Windows section,
we're going to discuss Windows Updates.
We'll learn how to determine what version of
the operating system you're running and the current build number.
We'll view currently installed updates,
the different types of updates,
and lastly, installing new updates.
It's important to know what version of the operating system you are running.
For this example, we'll use Windows 10,
but the principles apply to all Windows operating systems.
To retrieve this information,
press the Windows button on your keyboard and type,
"Win Ver", and hit, "Enter."
You can also type, "Win Ver", from a command line.
As you can see, this machine is running Windows 10.
The Version gets more specific.
This feature was added in 2015.
The 19 in 1909 indicates this version is from 2019.
The 09, you might have guessed, is referencing September.
In recent years, Microsoft have released two versions per year,
one usually in spring, the other in the fall.
The OS build consists of two parts separated by a dot.
The left side of the dot is a five digit value,
representing the build number associated with the version released.
On the right side,
is a three or four digit code indicating the most recent cumulative update installed.
For more information, visit the link in the classroom notes.
There will often be situations where you will want
to know what updates have been installed on the machine.
For example, when performing a security analysis for audit,
when you are troubleshooting a performance issue,
when performing incident response,
and finally, when installing new applications.
To view existing updates,
open PowerShell and type,
Get-HotFix, and hit, "Enter."
You'll get an output similar to this.
Here you'll see the description,
the date installed, and most importantly, the HotFixID.
You can take that ID and look up more information about the update.
There are many different types of Windows updates, let's go through them.
A critical update, according to Microsoft,
is a widely released fix for a specific problem
that addresses a critical non security-related bug.
This could be an emergency patch that resolves
an issue that was making an application crash.
A definition update is
a wildly released and frequent software update
that contains additions to a product's definition database.
Definition databases are often used to detect objects that have specific attributes,
such as malicious code,
phishing websites, or junk mail.
An example would be new malware definitions for Windows Defender.
A driver is the software that interacts
between your operating system and the device or hardware.
I will note, some IT professionals prefer to
download their drivers from the manufacturer of the device.
Feature pack is new product functionality that is first
distributed outside the context of a product release,
and that is typically included the next full product release.
A security update is a wildly released fix for a
product specific, security-related vulnerability.
Security vulnerabilities are rated by their severity.
The severity rating is indicated in the Microsoft security Bulletin as: critical,
important, moderate, or low.
A service pack is a tested cumulative set of all hotfixes,
security updates, critical updates, and updates.
Additionally, service packs may contain additional fixes
for problems that are found internally since the release of the product.
A tool is a utility or feature that helps complete a task or set of tasks.
An update, is a widely released fix for a specific problem.
An update addresses a non-critical, non security-related bug.
Now we'll learn strategies for updating Windows.
Beginning in 2016, Microsoft views the Windows Operating System as a service,
meaning that updates must be installed automatically to have the optimal experience.
Therefore, you can no longer pick and choose
which updates you would like to install without additional software.
Most organizations with dedicated IT departments
run some centralized Windows patch management.
WSUS, Windows Server Update Services
is a free utility to help centralize update management,
automate the installation of updates at a time that most benefits the organization,
and it helps manage the bandwidth consumption of updates.
Instead of 400 PCs and servers downloading from the internet,
the updates download to the WSUS server,
which then pushes them out on the much faster local network.
If your organization has purchased
SCCM System Center Configuration Manager as a component of configuration manager,
it can be used for Windows Updates,
installation of new applications,
OS upgrades, Antivirus scans, and much more.